>> Todd Gardner: So
capturing these metrics.
So talked about a lot
of different metrics.
How do we actually gather any of these up?
How do we actually see any of
these in a real situation?
So let's talk about that.
All the performance metrics
are available to us programmatically.
We can get these things out of
the browser and we can figure out.
We can capture them programmatically
in whatever way we want.
And there's two main things
that are interesting for
capturing performance metrics.
The Performance API and
the PerformanceObserver API.
Both of these are available on npm, and
we're gonna do just a brief overview
of what you need to do with them.
Most the time,
you're probably gonna use tooling of some
kind to gather these performance metrics.
You're probably not rolling your
own performance-logging tool.
But if you are, this is how you
go about interacting with them.
So just briefly,
the Performance API has a couple of
key things that are interesting on it.
One, it has a now method, so
we can get a current timestamp.
It allows us to getEntries,
which are essentially all of
the information in the Chrome Network tab.
We can get at that information.
We can also mark and
measure specific events,
which is all about capturing
custom performance metrics.
So performance now is a high-resolution
timestamp relative to the start
of the page.
So for example, if we do Date.now(),
which isn't a performance API,
that just gives us a timestamp.
And it's a timestamp to the millisecond,
I think, to the second.
But if we give performance.now,
we have a much higher resolution.
We have fractions of seconds.
We have microseconds in performance.now.
So if you're trying to measure
detailed interactions,
like the user clicks on this and
how long does each phase of a thing take,
performance.now gives you
the tools to do that.
Now, performance.now
isn't a full timestamp,
it's just how many
microseconds have happened.
How many fractional milliseconds have
happened since the start of the page?
When was the start of the page?
We get that off performance.timeOrigin.
That gives us a high-resolution timestamp,
similar to Date.now, but
represents when the page first started.
So sometimes shortly after, or
what essentially represents start when
the user first began the navigation.
So we can get the kind of the equivalent
of Date.now in a high-precision format
by just adding the two together,
timeOrigin + performance.now.
>> Todd Gardner: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Is there any API to modify
that to the timestamp that you want?
Like if you wanted to peg
performance.now to something else?
>> Todd Gardner: What's the use case?
>> Speaker 2: So for example,
if you have a high-precision clock
in a network that you tie to,
that's giving you timestamps.
That say this thing happened
at this exact time,
could you set performance.now
to that exact?
>> Todd Gardner: You cannot, because
performance.now is too high-precision.
The time delay to talk to your clock
is way higher than the precision
of performance.now.
The precision of performance.now is
measuring the microseconds on the local
machine of the browser.
So it's like if you wanted
to measure whether or
not your JavaScript function
took 600 microseconds or less.
That's what you use performance.now for.
If you're trying to synchronize with other
systems, the network delay of talking to
another system is way higher than
the precision that we're talking about.
So you're probably better off
building your own concept
of mysystem.latesttimestamp,
which is at a granularity of probably
10 milliseconds or something like that.
Whatever you need to account for the
delays between talking between systems.
>> Todd Gardner: Right, so
the second part of performances.
It run getEntries.
So this is timing information for
the page itself.
So how long did the HTML document take?
What are all the timings of DNS time,
SSL time, TCP handshake time?
You can get all that.
How long did this image take to run?
How long did the JavaScript
take to download?
How long did that fetch
resource take to run?
All the performance events,
any custom events you build.
I'm gonna briefly just kinda
take a look at that just so
you know what it looks like.
So if we pop over to a page.
So let's just pop open the dev
console here on my local one.
And I'm gonna go to the Console and
just type performance,
which is where the API is, so
I can get now, like we talked about.
Performance.getEntries returns
a great big list of things.
It's everything that's
in the network panel.
If we were capturing the network during
the load and a bunch of other stuff.
So we can see, for example,
the first one is almost always
the PerformanceNavigationTiming.
Here's how long the initial
navigation event took.
The TCP connection started
at 2.5 milliseconds.
It completed at 3.29 milliseconds.
Here's when domContentLoaded.
Event was originally fired.
And when all of the JavaScript callbacks
were done responding to domContentLoaded,
it was about one millisecond later.
So here's all the really low-level
details about the request.
So, if you're trying to spin up
your own kind of detailed logging,
this is an API that you would
use to interact with that.
There's all kinds of
other ways you can do it.
You can get specific performance entries,
drill in on details, that sort of thing.